Methods The synthesis of Pt 1 /OLC. Two main synthesis processes were involved in the preparation of the catalyst: a thermal annealing method was used to prepare the OLC and tune the density of the oxygen species and an ALD technique was used to deposit Pt precursors on the OLC supports. Typically, pristine DND powder (Henan Union Abrasive Co. Ltd) was first oxidized to remove the amorphous carbon and graft the oxygen functional groups outside the surface. The pristine DND powder (1 g) was added to a 100 ml mixture of H 2 SO 4 and HNO 3 (3:1 volume ratio) and refluxed at 160 °C for 24 h (ref. 37). When cooled down, the oxidized DND was washed with deionized water several times until a pH value of 7 was

The synthesis of Pt 1 /graphene. Graphene oxide was prepared by the improved method according to the previous report38. In brief, a mixture of 120 ml of concentrated H 2 SO 4 and 14 ml of H 3 PO 4 was added to graphite flakes (1.0 g), then the temperature was held at around 35–40 °C and 6 g of KMnO 4 was slowly added to it. The reaction was carried out at 50 °C and stirred for 12 h. When cooled down, ice along with several drops of 30 wt% H 2 O 2 were poured in until the solution turned yellow. The precipitates were filtered out and washed using 300 ml of 5 wt% HCl three times, followed by deionized water several times until a pH value of 7 was attained. The final products were freeze-dried. The as-prepared graphene oxide nanosheets were annealed at 1,050 °C for 10 min under an Ar atmosphere and served as a loading support to the anchored Pt atoms. We carried out a one- cycle ALD procedure using the same timing sequence as that for Pt 1 /OLC.

Synthesis of Pt single atoms on curved carbon supports To realize this ingenious catalyst design (Fig. 1a), to engineer vacancy defects and functional groups on the OLC supports is a critical step to stabilize isolated metal atoms7,9,18,19. In our experi- ments, surface-oxidized detonation nanodiamonds (DNDs) were selected as the starting material to obtain OLC due to their near uniform small-size distribution. This material was treated via ther- mal deoxygenation at various temperatures to tune precisely the type and distribution density of oxygen species, and the DND was automatically transformed into an OLC at elevated temperatures (>900 °C) (Supplementary Figs. 1 and 2)20. Then, a single cycle atomic layer deposition (ALD) was used to produce isolated Pt atoms on all the supports. To identify the form of the Pt atoms distributed on OLC sup- ports, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) was used. It is shown in Fig. 1b (more images in Supplementary Fig. 3) that isolated Pt atoms (named as Pt 1 /OLC) were observed all over the support with no obvious nanoparticles or clusters present. Meanwhile, typical multishell fullerene structures of diameter ~5 nm and with interlayer distances