Methods Synthesis. The monometallic catalysts were synthesized by a dissolution-and-carbonization method. A schematic illustration of the synthetic process is shown in Supplementary Fig. 1. Typically, 144 mg of glucose (C 6 H 12 O 6 ) was dissolved in 40 ml of ethanol. Meanwhile, the metal salt precursor (see details in Supplementary Table 1) and 690 mg of hydroxylamine hydrochloride ((NH 3 OH)Cl) were ultrasonically dissolved in 40 ml of deionized water. Subsequently, the ethanol and water solutions were mixed. The mixture was dried in a drying oven at 70 °C for 12 h. Afterwards, it was placed in a crucible, heated from room temperature to 600 °C with a ramp rate of 5 °C min−1 under Ar atmosphere and kept there for 4 h for carbonization. The obtained product was milled into fine powder for further characterization. Exceptionally, since AgNO 3 precursor can react with the Cl− in (NH 3 OH)Cl to form AgCl precipitation (Supplementary Fig. 2), the (NH 3 OH)Cl was replaced by tripolycyanamide with the same molarity as the (NH 3 OH)Cl for the synthesis of Ag SACs. For the synthesis of multimetallic SACs, the procedures are the same as for the monometallic catalysts except that multiple metal salt precursors instead of single ones were added, and the weight of each metal precursor was controlled according to Supplementary Table 2. Moreover, the SACs by the MOF method were synthesized with reference to the reported research25,26. Specifically, 2.4 g of 2-methylimidazole was dissolved in 40 ml of methanol by sonication for 5 min. 1.07 g of Zn(NO 3 ) 2 ·6H 2 O and the given amount of a metal precursor (see Supplementary Table 9 for details) were dissolved in 40 ml of methanol by sonication for 5 min. The two solutions were mixed by magnetic stirring for 12 h. The as-obtained precipitates were centrifuged, washed with methanol several times and dried in vacuum at 70 °C. The dried powder was placed in a tube furnace and then heated to the desired temperature (900 °C) for 3 h at the heating rate of 5 °C min−1 under flowing Ar gas. Then, it was naturally cooled to room temperature and ground into fine powder to obtain the representative samples. The as-prepared products were directly used without any post-treatment.