Preparation of Co –S MoS 2 catalyst. The isolated Co atom promoted S MoS 2 (Co –S MoS 2 ) catalyst was prepared using a hydrothermal method. 50.6 mg of cobalt acetate tetrahydrate and 36 mg of thiourea were added to 1 ml of water and left overnight to form the complex Co ion Co(thiourea) 4 2+ (ref. 28). Subsequently this Co thiourea complex solution was then added into 50 ml of 1 mg ml − 1 stabilized S MoS 2 colloid (30 v/v% isopropanol/water with 50 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone). A mixed homogeneous solution was then transferred to an autoclave, followed by hydrothermal treatment at 160 °C for 24 h. In order to anchor Co atoms onto the defects of S MoS 2 rather than inducing a fast self-nucleation, we used a very low concentration of the Co complex. During the hydrothermal process, the thiourea – Co complex re fi lled some of the surface sulfur vacancy sites of S MoS 2 . Previous studies con fi rm that defective vacancy sites possess high molecular af fi nity, especially for thiol-based molecules17 – 19. After the reaction, the precipitate was washed three times using deionized water and then dried under vacuum for 12 h and fi nally treated with H 2 at 300 °C for 1 h prior to storage.

Methods Preparation of single-layered MoS 2 ( S MoS 2 ). In a typical experiment, 0.5 g of bulk MoS 2 crystalline powder was soaked in 4 ml of 1.6 M n-butyllithium/hexane for 48 h under nitrogen atmosphere. After the intercalation of MoS 2 by lithium, the produced Li x MoS 2 was washed using vacuum fi ltration with 50 ml of hexane to remove excess butyllithium and organics and then dried under N 2 . Then the powder was immersed in 250 ml of water and the resulting suspension was sonicated to assist the completion of the exfoliation process, as any intercalated lithium would react with water to form H 2 gas between the layers. The evolution of H 2 tended to assist the separation of MoS 2 layers. The dispersion was centrifuged at 5,000 r.p.m. for 15 min to remove unexfoliated precursor and only the supernatant was collected by pipette. Eventually, the exfoliated MoS 2 layers remained totally suspended in aqueous solution. The pH value of the dispersion became alkaline due to the presence of trace lithium hydroxide. To collect the S MoS 2 powder HCl solution was added dropwise into the above colloid until the pH value reached around 7. The precipitate was then washed and collected by centrifugation several times and the fi nal product was dried under vacuum for 12 h.

Preparation of F MoS 2 . 6 g of bulk MoS 2 powder was dispersed in 400 ml of isopropanol/water at 30% v/v, and 4 ml of hydrazine monohydrate26. The system was sonicated for 12 h, and then centrifuged at 2,000 r.p.m. for 60 min to remove non-exfoliated sediments. In order to collect the exfoliated F MoS 2 powder from suspension, we changed the pH to around 7 by adding HCl solution. The charge balance in the dispersion would be disrupted, which would cause a fast fl occulation. The fi nal products were centrifuged, washed with deionized water three times and dried in the vacuum container for 12 h.