Results Catalyst synthesis and characterization Photocatalytic Bi 2 WO 6 was selected as the support, and was obtained from Bi 2 WO 6 /amorphous BiOCl nanosheets previously reported by our group 13 . A series of palladium-based Bi 2 WO 6 photocatalysts were pre- pared using a facile three-step method (Fig. 1a). The surface of Bi 2 WO 6 can expose coordinatively unsaturated –Bi/–O atoms after the removal of the amorphous BiOCl component by nitric acid and subsequent hydrogen treatment (to produce the BWO support (Supplementary Fig. 1)). Subsequently, palladium was dispersed on the BWO surface in single-atom form by impregnation, and the coordination environ- ment was regulated by controlling the calcination temperature in air. The as-prepared photocatalysts are denoted as Pd–O 4 /BWO and Pd– O 3 /BWO in accordance with the Pd–O coordination number (Fig. 1a). Supported palladium nanoparticle photocatalysts (Pd NP /BWO) were prepared by thermal reduction. The palladium content was determined to be approximately 0.05 wt.% for Pd–O 4 /BWO and Pd–O 3 /BWO, and 0.5 wt.% for Pd Np /BWO by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (Supplementary Table 2). The photocatalysts exhibited a nanosheet morphology with numerous small nanoplate units, consistent with the BWO substrate (Supplementary Fig. 2). X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) excludes the existence of metallic palladium and PdO x on Pd–O 4 /BWO and Pd– O 3 /BWO (Supplementary Fig. 3). Aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) showed some brighter atoms encircled in yellow,

Pd–O 3 /BWO, 50 mg of BWO nanosheet was impregnated with 100 μl of 0.25 mg Pd ml −1 PdCl 2 /acetonitrile solution. After impregnation, the sample was dried at 60 °C for 30 min and then calcinated in a muffle furnace at 175 °C for 3 h. The impregnation step remained the same for preparing 0.05 wt% Pd–O 4 /BWO, apart from changing the calcination temperature to 250 °C. Palladium nanoparticle loading was followed by thermal reduction: for the preparation of 0.5 wt% Pd Np /BWO, 100 mg BWO, 7.5 mg ascorbic acid, 7.5 mg citric acid and 25 mg polyvinylpyr- rolidone (mol. wt, 55,000) were added to 9 ml deionized water at 80 °C under vigorous stirring. After 30 min, 1.85 ml of 1 mg ml −1 K 2 PdCl 6 solu- tion was injected into the solution dropwise and kept stirring for 4 h. Finally, the solid was collected by centrifugation, washed with deion- ized water and dried at 60 °C overnight, after which the supernatant was almost transparent, indicating the successful loading of palladium nanoparticles on the support.

Methods Synthesis of Pd/BWO series photocatalysts First, 0.3 g Bi 2 WO 6 /amorphous BiOCl nanosheet powder was dispersed in 11 ml HNO 3 (1.3 M) solution and stirred for 4 h. The products were then collected by centrifugation and washed with deionized water until the supernatant solution was neutral. After freeze-drying for 2 days, 0.15 g of the sample was treated in a tube furnace with 5 vol% H 2 /Ar gas at 150 °C for 5 h to introduce defects. The resulting sample was named BWO. Palladium single-atom loading was performed by a typical incipient wet-impregnation method: to prepare 0.05 wt%