Synthesis of materials. Sol–gel, modified sol–gel and impregnation methods were used in this work for powder synthesis. SDC powder was synthesized using a typical sol–gel process. Samarium nitrate hexahydrate (Sm(NO 3 ) 3 ·6H 2 O) and cerium nitrate hexahydrate (Ce(NO 3 ) 3 ·6H 2 O) in a molar ratio of 1:3 were dissolved in distilled water. Then citric acid and ethylene glycol were added to the above solution forming a sol, which acted as a precursor for the following. The molar ratio of metallic ions/citric acid/ethylene glycol was 1:2:2. The sol was heated at 90 °C under stirring to gradually remove water from the system. It was noticed that the liquid system evolved towards the formation of a gel-like diphasic system containing both a solvent phase and continuous polymer networks. The remaining solvent was removed in a drying process at 300 °C, followed by thermal treatment in air at 600 °C for 5 h forming a pure SDC phase. SDCIr_SG was prepared by following the same procedure. The only difference was that ammonium hexachloroiridate ((NH 4 ) 2 IrCl 6 ) was added to the initial solution. The spatial distribution of the Ir ions in a desired homogeneous manner was achieved in the polymer networks, resulting in homogeneous distribution in the SDC lattice after reduction. The dispersity of Ir atoms greatly depends on the concentrations of complexing agents. Therefore, the distribution of Ir atoms could be easily altered by modifying the sol–gel process. When we decreased the ratio of the concentrations of citric acid and ethylene glycol until the molar ratio of metallic ions:citric acid:ethylene glycol reached 1:0.1:0.1, a disordered solid solution, denoted as SDCIr, was obtained after the final calcination. On reduction in H 2 at 400 °C for 0.5 h, SDC fluorite structures were maintained in both SDCIr_SG and SDCIr catalysts, but Ir atoms were extracted from the host lattices, forming SDCIr–O and SDCIr–Ir respectively. An alternative method used to synthesize SDC and the Ir compound was wet impregnation. A solution containing (NH 4 ) 2 IrCl 6 was impregnated into the SDC powder to achieve the desired amount of Ir. After drying in an oven at 90 °C, the powder was calcined in air at 600 °C for 5 h. The obtained compound is denoted as impregnated SDC/Ir in this work. In all SDC and Ir compounds, the weight ratios of Ir were kept at 1%. All the labels associated with SDC/Ir catalysts are listed in Supplementary Table 9. Double perovskite PrBaMn 2 O 5+δ (PBM) as an electrode component was synthesized using the typical sol–gel process described above. Praseodymium nitrate hexahydrate (Pr(NO 3 ) 3 ·6H 2 O), barium nitrate (Ba(NO 3 ) 2 ), manganese nitrate tetrahydrate (Mn(NO 3 ) 2 ·4H 2 O), citric acid and ethylene glycol were used as raw materials. After thermal treatment in air at 950 °C for 5 h, a single perovskite Pr 0.5 Ba 0.5 MnO 3−δ formed. During reduction in H 2 at 600 °C for 5 h, the single perovskite evolved into double perovskite PBM.

Synthesis and characterization of SDC/Ir catalysts. In the light of these findings, experiments were designed to introduce large cluster Ir (NP Ir) and small cluster Ir (atomic Ir, a mixture of SA Ir and NC Ir) on SDC surfaces to modulate the local configurations of Ir– Ir and Ir–O bonding characteristics, respectively, for selective CO 2 EH in PCEs. We used a facile one-pot sol–gel procedure that would enable metal precursors to be hydrolysed at a controlled rate, lead- ing to atomic homogeneity (Fig. 3a). We first dissolved the metal nitrates as well as a suitable amount of citric acid and ethylene glycol in water. These compounds were controllably hydrolysed to obtain a desired homogeneous gel. We anticipated this process could result in the spatial distribution of the Ir ions in a desired homogeneous manner. Followed by calcination in air, Ir atoms were incorporated into the SDC lattice at the atomic level, forming an ordered solid solution (SDCIr_SG). On reduction in H 2 , Ir cations were exsolved as NCs and as stabilized SAs on the SDC surface to produce the

Chemicals. We purchased Ba(NO 3 ) 2 , Ce(NO 3 ) 3 ·6H 2 O, citric acid, ethylene glycol, Mn(NO 3 ) 2 ·4H 2 O, (NH 3 ) 4 Pt(NO 3 ) 2 , (NH 4 ) 2 IrCl 6 , Pr(NO 3 ) 3 ·6H 2 O and Sm(NO 3 ) 3 ·6H 2 O for the synthesis of materials. NiO, BaZr 0.1 Ce 0.7 Y 0.1 Yb 0.1 O 3–δ and BaZr 0.4 Ce 0.4 Y 0.1 Yb 0.1 O 3–δ powder were bought for electrolyser preparation. Glass sealant, silver paste, silver meshes and wires were used in electrochemical measurements. All chemicals were used directly as purchased. The detailed information for these chemicals, including the manufacturers and purities, is listed in Supplementary Table 8.