Methods Preparation of nitride-derived trimetallic electrocatalysts and deposition onto GDE At first, 0.4 g Cu nanoparticles (25 nm, Sigma-Aldrich) were sus- pended in an aqueous solution of HAuCl 4 to make a galvanic exchange reaction at 60 °C for 30 min, with the concentration of Au in the solution corresponding to 0.3–3 mol% with respect to the Cu con- tent from Cu nanoparticles. The obtained powder (named CuAu x% ) was then washed with water and ethanol (96°, Carlo Erba), isolated by centrifugation and then dried in air. After that, the thus-obtained powder was added into an aqueous solution of AgNO 3 , in which the Ag content was equivalent to 0.1–1 mol% with respect to the amount of the initial Cu powder. The obtained powder (denoted as CuAu x% Ag y% ) was then washed with water and ethanol (96°, Carlo Erba), isolated by centrifugation and then dried in air before calcination at 500 °C for 1 h in air. The calcined sample (40 mg) was mixed with 400 mg NaNH 2 (98%, Sigma-Aldrich) in a glovebox filled with argon and the mixture was put in an autoclave (in the glovebox). The autoclave was then heated in a furnace at 170 °C for 20 h to form the Au–Ag-co-doped copper nitride material. After cooling down, 20 ml ethanol was added into the autoclave to form a suspension and then the material was collected by centrifugation, washed with water and ethanol, and finally dried in air before using it for a catalytic reaction. The control Au-doped or Ag-doped copper nitride material was prepared by using the same protocol. A scheme is provided to summarize the synthesis procedure (Supplementary Fig. 1). Preparation of GDE: a suspension was prepared with ratio of 1 mg catalyst powder with 5 μl solution of 5% Nafion (Sigma-Aldrich) and added to 100 μl ethanol. Then, 120 μl solution was drop-cast onto 1 cm 2 GDL (AvCarb GDS5130, Dioxide Materials) heated on a hotplate at 60 °C to obtain a load of 1.2 mg catalyst/1 cm 2 GDL. This modified GDL was then used as the cathode in electrochemical assays.