Results Synthesis and characterization of catalysts Fe–N–C was synthesized using a simple method. As shown in Fig. 1a, o-phenanthroline and Fe(acac) 3 were ultrasonically mixed and then dried, and the resulting solid was calcined at 700 °C and subsequently washed with 1 M HNO 3 . As shown in Fig. 1b, the calcination-derived Fe–N–C did not possess a distinctive morphology. However, trans- mission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Fig. 1c) revealed that the Fe–N–C edges exhibited a thin sheet-like structure. According to spherical-aberration-corrected TEM images, in Fe–N–C, individual iron atoms were present on the carrier surface (Fig. 1d), which was also supported by the X-ray diffraction pattern of the Fe–N–C (supple- mentary Fig. 1), which indicated that the catalyst primarily comprised amorphous carbon and no crystalline substances. This ruled out both iron aggregation and oxides in the catalyst. The elemental maps of the catalyst also revealed that Fe, C, N and O were uniformly distributed in the Fe–N–C (Fig. 1e). The Fe chemical states and local environment were further inves- tigated using the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra. As shown in Fig. 1f, the k 2 -weighted Fourier-transform EXAFS (FT-EXAFS) spectrum showed that in Fe–N–C, Fe was mainly coordinated with N atoms, with a bond length of 1.46 Å, corresponding to the Fe–N bond in iron (II) phthalocyanine (FePc). Meanwhile, no obvious peaks corresponding to the Fe–Fe bond appeared at 2.2 Å, implying the absence of Fe clus- ters and crystalline particles. As shown in Fig. 1g, the Fe K-edge XANES spectrum and valence analysis suggested that in Fe–N–C, the Fe valence state was between +2 and +3. The oxidation states or forms of each ele- ment in Fe–N–C were further characterized using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Fig. 1h). In the spectrum of the calcined Fe–N–C, the main Fe peak was near 710 eV, which means that Fe primarily existed in both the +2 and +3 oxidation states. The catalyst contained pyrrolic, pyridinic, graphitic and pyridine oxide N, O predominantly in C–O bonds and sp 2 -hybridized C atoms (supplementary Fig. 2).

Methods Catalyst preparation First, ferric acetylacetonate (Fe(acac) 3 ) and 1,10-ortho-phenanthroline were added to ethanol, and the mixture was stirred well to evenly distribute the components and then ultrasonicated for 30 min. Then, magnesium hydroxide (Mg(OH) 2 ) was added to the mixture, which was ultrasonicated for another 30 min and then dried using a rotary evaporator. The obtained solid was dried in an oven at 60 °C and then calcined in nitrogen at 700 °C. The calcined product was washed with 1 M nitric acid, centrifuged and dried to obtain Fe–N–C. Similarly, Co–N–C was synthesized using essentially the same method but with cobalt acetate instead of Fe(acac) 3 . The Mo–Co 3 O 4 and MoS 2 /Fe 2 O 3 samples were prepared using a simple method, as detailed in the Sup- plementary Information.