Preparation of M/support by wet impregnation In the preparation of M/support by wet impregnation, M represents ruthenium, palladium or platinum, while the supports were the com- mercial oxide or prepared as described above. Taking the preparation of ruthenium-based catalyst as an example, 0.995 g support and 335 μl ruthenium(III) nitrosyl nitrate solution was dispersed in 30 ml deion- ized water and stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The suspension was stirred in a 50 °C waterbath until no water was visible (about 8 h), then dried at 60 °C overnight. The solid was calcined at 350 °C for 3 h to obtain the final catalysts: Ru/SiO 2 , Ru/Al 2 O 3 , Ru/TiO 2 (P), Ru/TiO 2 (a), Ru/Ti(P)/Mn, Ru/Ti/Si, and Ru/Ti/Al. Palladium- and platinum-based catalysts were prepared by the same method, except that the ruthenium precursor is replaced by palladium nitrate or chloroplatinic acid. The theoretical loading content of noble metals was 0.5 wt.%. The prepa- ration details of the CuZnAl catalyst are shown in the Supplementary Information.

Methods Preparation of MnO x support MnO x support was prepared by the solvent-free method 54 . Potassium permanganate and manganese acetate tetrahydrate (Mn 7+ :Mn 2+ = 2:3) were mixed and ground in a mortar for 20 min to obtain a taupe mix- ture. Then the mixture was transferred to an oven for solid-phase reaction at 80 °C for 4 h. The resulting solid was washed with deionized water and filtered until the filtrate was colourless and transparent. The filter residue was dried at 60 °C overnight and calcined in a muffle furnace at 450 °C for 3 h to obtain MnO x . The details of materials and chemicals are summarized in the Supplementary Information.

Preparation of TiO 2 -oxide support TiO 2 was added by the following method to different oxide supports, namely, MnO x , SiO 2 or Al 2 O 3 . Suspension A was obtained by adding 1.00 g metal oxide, 200 ml anhydrous ethanol and 20 ml ammonium hydroxide in order in a flask and stirring vigorously for 30 min. Suspen- sion B was obtained by slowly dissolving 0.5 ml butyl titanate in 50 ml anhydrous ethanol and dripping it into suspension A. Suspension B continued to be stirred for 2 h, and after filtration, the filter residue was washed with anhydrous ethanol three times and dried at 60 °C overnight. The final sample (Ti/Mn, Ti/Si or Ti/Al) was obtained by calcining at 450 °C for 3 h. The preparation details of the commercial TiO 2 as the precursor of the TiO 2 -oxide (Ti(a)/Mn or Ti(P)/Mn) catalyst support are shown in the Supplementary Information.