Methods Catalysts synthesis. In the first doping step, Mn-doped ZIF-8 precursors were synthesized in a dimethylformamide (DMF) solution. The precursors are designated as nMn-ZIF, where n is the molar percentage of Mn against total metals (Mn and Zn) in the solutions. In this work, the n value varied from 0 (Mn free) to 30 at% and the concentration of 2-methylimidazle and Zn2+ were controlled at 80 and 40 mmol l−1, respectively. Typically, a controlled amount of zinc(ii) nitrate hexahydrate and manganese(iii) acetate dihydrate were dissolved into DMF to form a uniform solution in a round-bottom flask (A). 2-Methylimidazole was dissolved in a conical-flask with DMF solution (B). After mixing solutions A and B, the reaction temperature was increased to 120 °C, holding for 24 h to allow Mn-doped ZIF-8 nanocrystals to grow. After cooling down to room temperature, the Mn-ZIF-8 nanocrystals were collected by centrifugation, washed at least three times with ethanol, and then dried at 60 °C in a vacuum oven for 5 h. The Mn-ZIF-8 precursors were subsequently heated at a temperature of 1,100 °C in a tube furnace under N 2 flow for 1 h to obtain the Mn and N co-doped nanocarbon (NC). The samples were labelled as nMn-NC, where n is atomic percent of Mn against total metal (for example, 20Mn-NC). Next, acid leaching treatment in 0.5 M H 2 SO 4 solution at 80 °C for 5 h was carried out to remove Mn clusters and open porous structures of nMn-NC samples. Typically, 100 ml acid solution was used for 100 mg sample. An additional heat treatment at 900 °C under N 2 flow for 3 h is necessary to repair the carbon structure. Such-prepared carbon samples labelled as nMn-NC-first are ready for the second adsorption step. In the second adsorption step, the nMn-NC-first powder was dispersed into a mixed solution (isopropanol: water = 1:1) containing Mn(ii) chloride and nitrogen sources (for example, dipicolylamine, cyanamide, phenanthroline or melamine). After 2 h ultrasonication along with and 5 h magnetic stirring, the mixture was collected by centrifugation (13,552g) and then dried at 60 °C in a vacuum oven for 5 h. A subsequent thermal activation at temperature of 1,100 °C under N 2 atmosphere for 1 h was conducted to synthesize the final catalysts, labelled as nMn- NC-second. As control samples, 20Co-NC-second and 20Fe-NC-second samples were prepared through similar procedures.